Upstreamize API guide (#3212)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_working-with-lifecycle-environments.adoc

[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
$ curl --header "Accept:application/json" \
--header "Content-Type:application/json" \
--request GET --user _My_User_Name_:__My_Password__ \
https://_{foreman-example-com}_/katello/api/organizations/1/environments \
| python3 -m json.tool`
----

Example response:
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
      _output omitted_
   "description": null,
   *"id": 1,*
   *"label": "Library",*
   "library": true,
   *"name": "Library",*
   "organization": {
        "id": 1,
        "label": "Default_Organization",
        "name": "Default Organization"
   },
   "permissions": {
       "destroy_lifecycle_environments": false,
       "edit_lifecycle_environments": true,
       "promote_or_remove_content_views_to_environments": true,
       "view_lifecycle_environments": true
   },
   *"prior": null,*
   *"successor": null,*
   _output truncated_
----

[id="proc-Creating_Linked_Life_Cycle_Environments"]
.Creating linked lifecycle environments
Use this example to create a path of lifecycle environments.

This procedure uses the default Library environment with ID `1` as the starting point for creating lifecycle environments.

> .  Choose an existing lifecycle environment that you want to use as a starting point.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Choose an existing lifecycle environment that you want to use as a starting point.
```

List the environment by using its ID, in this case, the environment with ID `1`:
+
Example request:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
$ curl --request GET --user _My_User_Name_:__My_Password__ \
https://_{foreman-example-com}_/katello/api/environments/1 \
| python3 -m json.tool
----
+
Example response:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
	_output omitted_
   *"id": 1,*
   *"label": "Library",*
	_output omitted_
    *"prior": null,*
    *"successor": null,*
  _output truncated_
----

> .  Create a JSON file, for example, `life-cycle.json`, with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a JSON file, for example, `life-cycle.json`, with the following content:
```

+
----
{"organization_id":1,"label":"api-dev","name":"API Development","prior":1}
----

> .  Create a lifecycle environment by using the `prior` option set to `1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a lifecycle environment by using the `prior` option set to `1`.
```

+
Example request:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
$ curl --header "Accept:application/json" \
--header "Content-Type:application/json" \
--request POST --user _My_User_Name_:__My_Password__ \
--data @life-cycle.json \
https://_{foreman-example-com}_/katello/api/environments \
| python3 -m json.tool
----
+
Example response:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
      _output omitted_
    "description": null,
    *"id": 2,*
    "label": "api-dev",
    "library": false,
    "name": "API Development",
    "organization": {
        "id": 1,
        "label": "Default_Organization",
        "name": "Default Organization"
    },
    "permissions": {
        "destroy_lifecycle_environments": true,
        "edit_lifecycle_environments": true,
        "promote_or_remove_content_views_to_environments": true,
        "view_lifecycle_environments": true
    },
   *"prior":* {
        *"id": 1,*
        "name": "Library"
    },
    _output truncated_
----
+

> In the command output, you can see the ID for this lifecycle environment is `2`, and the lifecycle environment prior to this one is `1`.

Author: ```suggestion
In the command output, you can see the ID for this lifecycle environment is `2`, and the lifecycle environment before this one is `1`.
```

Use the lifecycle environment with ID `2` to create a successor to this environment.

> .  Edit the previously created `life-cycle.json` file, updating the `label`, `name`, and `prior` values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Edit the previously created `life-cycle.json` file, updating the `label`, `name`, and `prior` values.
```

+
----
{"organization_id":1,"label":"api-qa","name":"API QA","prior":2}
----

> .  Create a lifecycle environment, by using the `prior` option set to `2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a lifecycle environment, by using the `prior` option set to `2`.
```

+
Example request:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
$ curl --header "Accept:application/json" \
--header "Content-Type:application/json" \
--request POST --user _My_User_Name_:__My_Password__ \
--data @life-cycle.json \
https://_{foreman-example-com}_/katello/api/environments \
| python3 -m json.tool
----
+
Example response:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
      _output omitted_
   "description": null,
   *"id": 3,*
    "label": "api-qa",
    "library": false,
    "name": "API QA",
    "organization": {
        "id": 1,
        "label": "Default_Organization",
        "name": "Default Organization"
    },
    "permissions": {
        "destroy_lifecycle_environments": true,
        "edit_lifecycle_environments": true,
        "promote_or_remove_content_views_to_environments": true,
        "view_lifecycle_environments": true
    },
   *"prior":* {
        *"id": 2,*
        "name": "API Development"
    },
    "successor": null,
    _output truncated_
----
+

> In the command output, you can see the ID for this lifecycle environment is `3`, and the lifecycle environment prior to this one is `2`.

Author: ```suggestion
In the command output, you can see the ID for this lifecycle environment is `3`, and the lifecycle environment before this one is `2`.
```
